Let's quickly recap how our app is currently functioning.
We have an app component that has todos and goals components inside of it.
Both todos and goals need access to the store.
So app needs to pass the store down as a prop.
This is fine right now,
but as our app grows it will become increasingly
difficult to pass the store to any components that need it.
Let's use the new Context API to make the store accessible to components that need it.
So the first thing we'll do whenever we want to deal with Context is actually
create a Context object here by using React.createContext.
This Context objects will now have a provider property as well as a consumer property.
So what we'll do first, is we want to set up our provider,
and we're going to make our own little abstraction over Provider ourselves,
just by creating our own Provider component.
So what this will do is it render a
Contexts.Provider component and then
inside of it it's just going to render whatever its children are.
And then what we want to be available on any Child components
that use Context.Consumer is the store.
So what we'll do is we'll pass our store
to this provider component as a prop and then we will go ahead and stick
it on value so that again any child components that use consumer
can go ahead and consume our store without needing to pass it down as a prop.
So now that we have our provider component,
what we can do up here,
is instead of rendering our app,
we want to render our provider,
we want to pass to it as a prop or store,
and then what we want its children to be is just app component here.
So now again what's going to happen is because we have wrapped
our entire application and provider and provided it the store,
now anytime in our child components that
we use Context.Consumer will be able to grab the store.
So now let's start implementing Context.Consumer.
So the first area in which we want to be able to access
the store from a component is our app component.
But this one's a little tricky because you'll notice here when we use Context.Consumer,
it has a declarative API so what you
do is in order to get access to the store as you've seen,
is you do Context.Consumer,
then you'll get access to the store by passing it a child function like this,
which it will be pass the store.
But this doesn't help us inside of our app component because we need
access to the store inside of componentDidMount and not just in our render method.
So what will do in order to solve this problem,
is we're going to use a pattern called a container component.
A connected component could be a bit tricky,
so let's look at what it's trying to solve.
The connected part of connected components means that it's connected to the store.
This component will be responsible for interacting with the store.
This is in contrast to a plane or
presentational component which is just responsible for rendering content.
So presentational components are concerned with how things look,
and container components are concerned with how things work.
How this works is a container component is called in your code.
This interacts with the store and gets any data that's needed.
Then it passes that data as props to the presentational component.
It's a little complicated first,
but the benefit of this is the separation of concerns.
Anything to do with the store or the data is done in the connected component,
and anything that's rendered is in the presentational component.
So what we'll do is down here let's make a brand new component.
We'll call this one ConnectedApp.
It's going to extend React.Component,
and what it is going to render is context.consumer.
Now, we can pass this a function as its child which will be given the store,
and then now right here what we can do is,
we can render anything we want.
So we'll just go ahead and render the app component passing it the store as our props.
So now inside of store,
we don't have to change anything because we already
have it here The store is coming in as a prop.
But now instead of passing the app component the store from one we render it,
what we're doing is we're using context and we have a connected app component
here which is responsible for grabbing the store off
a context and then passing it to our app